# PROJECT-BIOgen-HEART
Project BIOgen HEART is a miniature heart created through the bio printing process starting with the patient's own stem cells. Doctors take the cells from the patient via blood sample with aseptic precautions by using growth factor (GF) and also leveraging recent stem cells research inventions. The next step is to reprogram those blood cells which are taken and convert them to create specialized heart cells named Cardiomyocytes from the induced pluripotent stem cells (IPS’c).This is done by a process called as differentiation. Heart tissue grown on spinach leaf wherein researchers turn the vascular system of plants to solve a major bioengineering problem blocking the regeneration of human tissues and organs. The scientists turn to plants culturing beating human heart cells on spinach leaf. In this sequence a spinach leaf is stripped of its plant cells, which is a process called decellularisation using a detergent. This process leaves behind the leaf’s vasculature. This looks like a shape of SCAFFOLD.  The Bioink is created using specialized heart cells (Cardiomyocytes), combined with nutrients in a liquid environment (hydrogel ) along with other materials which help the cells to survive the bio printing process. The Bioink will then be loaded into a bio printer in a highly specialized 3D Printer designed to protect living cells during 3Dprinting process. This is done by printing one layer at a time, guided by CAD following the specific dimensions obtained from MRI. As the heart cells will not be fused together at this point biocompatible and biodegradable scaffolding will be included. This is done to support the cells and hold them in place. When the process of procurement of cells is completed the cells will be shifted into a bio reactor which will create the appropriate conditions required for nutrition and oxygen rich environment. The individual cells would begin self-organizing and fusing into networks which will connect to form living healthy tissue. The cells in this tissue will even begin to work in unison and in fact the mass beats.The Bio-printing process is the stage where a miniature heart is developed using BioPrinter. This heart will remain in the bioreactor until it reaches a desired level of strength and maturity. A successful patient deployment would be then possible under aseptic precautions and minimal anesthesia. This should be carried out by vascular and CT surgeons, with the help of adherent glue. This glue is combination of new heat sensitive gel &amp; glue which will enable blood vessels to be reconnected without puncturing or cutting them with a needle and thread. This is a thermos reversible polymer which is biocompatible. This is named as POLOXAMER 407 which is approved by FDA. Similarly derma bond, which is a surgical sealant, is also used to attach ends of blood vessels together. This is a novel approach to anastomosis which could play a valuable role in microvascular surgery and beating heart surgery instead of suturing, where there is reconstruction of vessels and anastomosis. Suturing work is not  needed at any point, internal or external at the deployment site. The miniature BIOgen heart is aptly fit and a perfect genetic match for the patient and is free from risk of rejection, infection or the need for immunosuppressant therapy which is generally used for organ transplant procedure. 
